---
layout: post
title:  Hi, there!
---

For those who don't know me (and you shouldn't, haha!) I was kind of a ghost until like 1 week ago when I decided to do creative writing on GitHub. Now, I'm not a trained prose writer whatsoever, hell no. If you are looking for a more educated and experienced type of writing you should read something written by a formal writer. I'm more of a code guy who happens to like writing. And now, two of my favorite things have merged to create this pen name (you knew how this was from the beginning, don't you?).  
I'm using this as a show case of yet another use of this great tools git and GitHub.o



## Why?
Now, GitHub (and for that matter control versioning systems) are THE tool for programmers. I can't imagine a software developing process where versioning isn't a thing. You name it, SVN, HG, Git, etc.  
So, why in the world don't using the powers of version and all it's goodies in order to create great stories? Stories that can be forked at any moment to create even more stories! see?  

I think using GitHub for creative writing accomplishes 2 things:  
* Forces you to have a local back up of your work AND the online who literally can give you any version of your work ever. Who likes to work on a chapter or so for like days and then seeing it lost because of a faulty USB/Ext HardDrive/MSWord? (yep, I've seen those cases).You can go back in time whenever you please and get a post back to life! *evil-laugh.ogg*  

* Encourages you to show your creative process, which I think is great. Showing not only the finished, polished and shiny result of months of work, but also, your changes, your creative thinking developed in those long months. Who knows? Maybe that guy in your book doesn't die in version 9bfeb69 of your book ;)  


## The ugly MS Word (or let's embrace free and open source for everything)
Yep, none of you like it, dont lie. MS Word requires you to have a working and activated copy of their ugly software. And then you have to worry about formatting, dont messing with the whole document if you tweak an image a bit.  

Besides, MS Word tends to crash a lot, leaving you with orphaned versions of your work, in the off chances it manages to have a recovery version that is not always the latest.

### So, what in the hell are you using then?
#### Markdown
Enter, Markdown (this very post is written on markdown). Ever heard of it? Its a light markup language with plain test formatting syntax. It's dead simple to use so you can focus on the actual content of your document and not the formatting of it. Format once, then forget about it.
You can have a novel entirely written on Markdown and it will be a lot smaller (storage) than it's MS Word counterpart.  

#### Pandoc
Pandoc is an opensource document converter. But that description doesnt even get close to the great piece of software Pandoc is. Haskell based, its aweseome what it can achieve. And, in this case I use it to gather all my `*.markdown` files and put them together in a single.. uh, you name it: epub, html, pdf ... and on, and on.  

You can read more about writing novels with only open source tools (by more experienced people than me) here:
* [State of writing with Markdown, YAML, and Git 2017](https://d.moonfire.us/blog/2017/05/24/git-and-writing/) This one is a gem.  
* [10 Ways Git Version Control Can Streamline Your Writing Projects](http://www.developer.com/open/10-ways-git-version-control-can-streamline-your-writing-projects.html)  
* [Top ten reasons GitHub is a great tool for creative writers](https://medium.com/@jjmerelo/top-ten-reasons-github-is-a-great-tool-for-creative-writers-d0e8b27de71d) A gem too, actually he inspired me to start with creative writing, so thanks!
* [How I wrote and published my novel using only open source tools](https://medium.com/techspiration-ideas-making-it-happen/how-i-wrote-and-published-my-novel-using-only-open-source-tools-5cdfbd7c00ca) Open source everything!


